---
layout: post
title: Debt Free
date: 2012-06-21 07:15:00.000000000 +05:30
type: post
parent_id: '0'
published: true
password: ''
status: publish
categories: []
tags: []
meta:
  blogger_blog: ijuned.blogspot.com
  blogger_7553295648c4d8ebded8b8484926da00_permalink: '682225069699613262'
---
<div dir="ltr" style="text-align:left;">
<div class="post-header">  </div>
<div dir="ltr" style="text-align:left;">
<div> It is the month of August, on the <span class="IL_AD" id="IL_AD6">shores<span class="IL_AD_ICON"></span></span> of the Black Sea . It is raining, and the little town looks totally  deserted. It is tough times, everybody is in debt, and everybody lives  on credit. Suddenly, a rich tourist comes to town. He enters the only  hotel, lays a 100 Euro note on the <span class="IL_AD" id="IL_AD1">reception<span class="IL_AD_ICON"></span></span> counter, and goes to inspect the rooms upstairs in order to choose one. The hotel <span class="IL_AD" id="IL_AD3">proprietor<span class="IL_AD_ICON"></span></span> takes the 100 Euro note and runs to pay his debt to the butcher. The  butcher takes the 100 Euro note, and runs to pay his debt to the pig  grower. The pig grower takes the 100 Euro note, and runs to pay his debt  to the supplier of his feed and fuel. The supplier of feed and fuel  takes the 100 Euro note and runs to pay his debt to the town's  prostitute that in these hard times, gave her "services" on credit ...  The hooker runs to the hotel, and pays off her debt with the 100 Euro  note to the hotel proprietor to pay for the rooms that she rented when  she brought her clients there. The hotel proprietor then lays the 100  Euro note back on the counter so that <span class="IL_AD" id="IL_AD7">the rich<span class="IL_AD_ICON"></span></span> tourist will not suspect anything. At that moment, the tourist comes  down after inspecting the rooms, and takes his 100 Euro note, after  saying that he did not like any of the rooms, and leaves town. No one  earned anything. However, the whole town is now without debt, and looks  to the <span class="IL_AD" id="IL_AD5">future with<span class="IL_AD_ICON"></span></span> a lot of optimism ... And that is how, I am told, the <span class="IL_AD" id="IL_AD2">United States Government<span class="IL_AD_ICON"></span></span> is <span class="IL_AD" id="IL_AD4">doing business<span class="IL_AD_ICON"></span></span> today!</div>
</div>
</div>
