---
layout: post
title: RIMS and RIMS models
date: 2012-06-26 13:32:00.000000000 +05:30
type: post
parent_id: '0'
published: true
password: ''
status: publish
categories: []
tags: []
meta:
  blogger_blog: ijuned.blogspot.com
  blogger_7553295648c4d8ebded8b8484926da00_permalink: '3794784120933956578'
---
<div dir="ltr" style="text-align:left;">A Growing New Model: ‘Asset Light’ RIMO</p>
<p>As CIOs increasingly work  with remote infrastructure management tools for configuration, testing  and distri¬bution of software, more and more engineers are being  empowered to remotely manage <span class="IL_AD" id="IL_AD6">data centers<span class="IL_AD_ICON"></span></span>, storage, networks, desktop support, <span class="IL_AD" id="IL_AD3">help desk<span class="IL_AD_ICON"></span></span> and security (i.e., security and control: certified ISO 27000). As CIOs  become comfortable with remote management of in¬frastructure planning,  administration, monitoring and problem-solving, a new model—remote  infrastructure management outsourcing, or RIMO—is emerging to help  buyers gain many of the hoped-for benefits of asset ownership transfer  without the sometimes nightmarish costs and risks associated with that  older model.<br />RIMO, also known as the ‘asset light’ model, is an  increasingly popular form of selective outsourcing in which a solution  provider assumes responsibility for managing specific (or all)  IT/network functions. Unlike traditional outsourcing arrangements,  however, RIMO does not entail the transfer of an enterprise’s assets or  personnel to the solution provider or <span class="IL_AD" id="IL_AD5">data center<span class="IL_AD_ICON"></span></span>.  Instead, the organization contracts for a solution pro¬vider to  continuously monitor its systems identify po¬tential problems and  remediate and resolve real events from a remote location.<br />The  foremost practitioners of RIMO today are managed service providers, or  MSPs, who manage IT services for other companies via the Internet. The  MSP business model evolved as the traditional computer value-added <span class="IL_AD" id="IL_AD8">reseller<span class="IL_AD_ICON"></span></span> (VAR) model continually provided lower profit margins. This changing  reality, combined with competi¬tion from direct PC vendors such as Dell  and Alienware (the latter now owned by Dell) and unpredictable rev¬enues  from reactive, break-fix technical support, led to the new model.<br />In an RIMO scenario, an MSP commonly provides re¬mote network, desktop and <span class="IL_AD" id="IL_AD4">security monitoring<span class="IL_AD_ICON"></span></span>, patch management, <span class="IL_AD" id="IL_AD1">remote data backup<span class="IL_AD_ICON"></span></span> and other technical services, monitoring a client’s IT infrastructure  and re¬solving any issues that arise within it. Most MSPs charge either a  per-month fee, on a time-and-materials basis, or per deployed device  (e.g., per server or network device). RIMO is particularly important for  the small-to-me¬dium-sized business (SMB) market, giving businesses a  relatively cost-effective way to manage their IT without having to hire  on-site staff.</p>
<p>RIMS Benefits and Market Growth</p>
<p>According  to Everest Research, the RIMO market grew from $720 million in 2005 to  $1.5 billion in 2006, and Everest expects the RIMO market to exceed $8  billion <span class="IL_AD" id="IL_AD10">somewhere<span class="IL_AD_ICON"></span></span> around 2011. RIMO is on the rise because it tends to result in both predictable <span class="IL_AD" id="IL_AD9">recurring<span class="IL_AD_ICON"></span></span> revenues for the provider and peace of mind for the client, foster¬ing  labor arbitrage and delivering greater flexibility and improved process  efficiency.<br />RIMO is inherently more flexible than previous out¬sourcing alternatives. Assets rarely move from home data centers,  and the RIMO model is flexible enough that buyers can move assets to  nearshore centers in re¬sponse to M&amp;A activity, business growth,  increased IT volume or changing technology roadmaps.<br />RIMO shifts control away from the owners of desktops, servers, mainframes and data centers,  and toward the buyers themselves. That helps spur competition that is  based on price, capability and cultural fit rather than proprietary  vendor requirements.</p>
<p>RIMS Models</p>
<p>‘Asset light’ does not  mean ‘asset-free.’ Instead, it means buyers will have more power to  retain ownership of their assets so they can not only relieve themselves  of vendor control but also break out functions according to core  competencies and overall value to the organiza¬tion, and outsource or  ‘in-source’ pieces of the IT infra¬structure accordingly. To do this,  CIOs will commonly break their overall IT infrastructure into  independent ‘towers’ such as network management, server adminis¬tration,  maintenance and desktop support. Towers give IT executives the  flexibility to pick and choose functions they are willing to farm out to  suppliers to get started with RIMO. For example, outsourcing server  monitor¬ing within a data center, or <span class="IL_AD" id="IL_AD7">quality assurance<span class="IL_AD_ICON"></span></span> after code is written, can be a safe way to start. By beginning with  one tower at a time, CIOs can familiarize themselves with RIMO providers  across different regions with various technology installed bases, as  well as varying IT expen¬ditures, resources, governance, and methods of  process engineering.<br />Three RIMO multi-sourcing/’collaborative sourcing’ models are emerging: <br />Selective/discreet  RIMO, where a set of functions and processes is set aside for remote  management. That means, for example, that functions such as help desk or data center  may be retained by the customer while their monitoring and management  is outsourced. This is the best way for most IT executives to get  started with RIMO regardless of company size because it involves the  least risk: if the first RIMO arrangement does not work, it does not  jeopardize the company’s entire IT infrastructure. It also embodies the  real promise of RIMO in that the company can outsource pieces of the IT  infrastructure to different providers based on their relative  capabilities and offers. Full-service RIMO, where a company outsources  services but retains the assets and the physical data center. Decisions around full-service outsourcing depend on business case and strategic drivers such as asset refresh and data center  consolidation. This scenario is ideal for those companies with the  largest embedded base of both IT investment and in-house experience with  regard to the equipment itself, but little capability and expertise in <span class="IL_AD" id="IL_AD2">application<span class="IL_AD_ICON"></span></span> management. This is a good model for nearly all <span class="IL_AD" id="IL_AD11">Tier 1<span class="IL_AD_ICON"></span></span> organizations. <br />Vendor-managed  inventory (a.k.a. business-ready infrastructure or BRI), where assets  are largely owned by the RIMO provider. BRI combines certified,  on-demand application infrastructures and offshore-based services to  create a predictable, pay-per-use, multi-year service model and a  platform for SaaS that is ideal for the SMB market.</div>
