---
layout: post
title: True story of immortal Rifleman Jaswant Sigh Rawat:1962 War with China.
date: 2012-06-26 13:22:00.000000000 +05:30
type: post
parent_id: '0'
published: true
password: ''
status: publish
categories: []
tags: []
meta:
  blogger_blog: ijuned.blogspot.com
  blogger_7553295648c4d8ebded8b8484926da00_permalink: '8931509003439587309'
---
<div dir="ltr" style="text-align:left;">Forty years after his death, an Indian rifleman has become a 'major  general' and is still believed to 'command' troops guarding the dizzy  heights along <span class="IL_AD" id="IL_AD1">the frontier<span class="IL_AD_ICON"></span></span> with China.</p>
<p>Rifleman Jaswant Singh Rawat of the Fourth Garhwal Rifles, an <span class="IL_AD" id="IL_AD7">infantry<span class="IL_AD_ICON"></span></span> regiment, is perhaps the only soldier in the long and chequered history of the Indian Army who has earned <span class="IL_AD" id="IL_AD2">regular<span class="IL_AD_ICON"></span></span> promotions even after death. Rawat remained at his post at an altitude  of 10,000 feet and held back advancing Chinese troops for three days all  by himself during <span class="IL_AD" id="IL_AD3">the winter<span class="IL_AD_ICON"></span></span> war with China in 1962 along the northeastern state of Arunachal Pradesh before he was shot dead.</p>
<p>The rifleman may have died, but <span class="IL_AD" id="IL_AD10">soldiers<span class="IL_AD_ICON"></span></span> say his spirit lives on. Rawat gets an unofficial promotion at regular  intervals. He is today a major general, and the post he held to repulse  the Chinese is called Jaswant Garh in recognition of his courage.  Rawat's bravery has earned him a distinct place in the Indian Army along  the unfenced 1,030-km Sino-Indian border. For the troops he is their  guardian angel.</p>
<p>Myth, <span class="IL_AD" id="IL_AD4">folklore<span class="IL_AD_ICON"></span></span> and superstition are so strong among the soldiers that the <span class="IL_AD" id="IL_AD11">battle<span class="IL_AD_ICON"></span></span> site has been converted into a Hindu temple, with troops giving Rawat <span class="IL_AD" id="IL_AD5">the status<span class="IL_AD_ICON"></span></span> of 'baba' or saint."Troops pFiltered By ing by this route, be it a  general or a soldier, make it a point to pay their respects at the  shrine of Jaswant Singh or else they invoke his curse," warned Ram  Narayan Singh, a soldier."A major general once refused to pray at his  shrine while crossing the area, saying this was just a superstition. He  died in a mysterious road accident a few kilometres away."</p>
<p>Today  at least half a dozen personnel of the Garhwal Rifles are deployed along  the border with China to take care of Rawat -- as if he were alive."For  us he is immortal and continues to protect and bless us in this  treacherous mountain terrain," a Garhwal Rifles soldier posted at  Rawat's shrine said. Soldiers behave as if Rawat is still alive - an  orderly cooks for him daily, makes his bed, irons his clothes and  polishes his boots. His shrine is protected round the clock.</p>
<p>"Each  morning his bed is found crumpled and his freshly ironed clothes lie  crushed on the floor," another soldier said. "He is here all the time  although we cannot see him."According to locals and soldiers posted near  Jaswant Garh, Rawat's spirit roams the area. Some claim dreaming about  him."The respect Rawat commands even after his death is something very  rare in the Indian Army," Major Jaideep Ghosh told <span class="IL_AD" id="IL_AD9">IANS<span class="IL_AD_ICON"></span></span>. "I have never seen anything like this -- a dead soldier still influencing the troops."<br />In 1962, when the Chinese Army invaded India from N.E.F.A., a company of Garhwal Rifles was posted <span class="IL_AD" id="IL_AD6">somewhere<span class="IL_AD_ICON"></span></span> on the Filtered By am-Arunachal Pradesh border. They were ordered to  vacate their post as soon as possible, but Jaswant Singh Rawat decided  to stay back and for THREE DAYS, he kept the rampaging Chinese at bay  almost single-handedly. He Killed more than 300 Chinese Soldiers and engaged 3 battalions (around 3000 people) for 3 days.<br />Legend  has it that the Chinese troops after killing Rawat beheaded him and  carried his torso as a trophy because he alone stood guard against the  rampaging <span class="IL_AD" id="IL_AD8">invaders<span class="IL_AD_ICON"></span></span> - armed with just a vintage .303 rifle.<br />But  after the ceasefire, a Chinese commander, impressed by Rawat's bravery,  returned the head along with a brFiltered By  bust of Jaswant Singh.  The bust, created in China to honour the Indian, is now installed at the  site of the battle.</p>
<p>Cheers!!!!</p></div>
