---
layout: post
title: Windows Tips
date: 2012-06-26 14:09:00.000000000 +05:30
type: post
parent_id: '0'
published: true
password: ''
status: publish
categories: []
tags: []
meta:
  blogger_blog: ijuned.blogspot.com
  blogger_7553295648c4d8ebded8b8484926da00_permalink: '212634281018787728'
---
<div dir="ltr" style="text-align:left;">Start/Run/GPEDIT/User restrictions. These things can only be changed from <br />Admin accounts and apply to all user profiles. GPEDIT.MSC is not available <br />in <span class="IL_AD" id="IL_AD11">the Home<span class="IL_AD_ICON"></span></span> Edition of <span class="IL_AD" id="IL_AD8">Windows XP<span class="IL_AD_ICON"></span></span>. </p>
<p>1. Go to Windows Explorer/Document &amp; Settings <br />2. All Users". Click on Start Menu/Programs and locate the short cut to that <br />program. <br />3. Do the same under "specific username" (the username that you want to be <br />anble to individually use the program. <br />4. Now "Copy" the shortcut from All Users/Start Menu/Programs to <br />"username"/Start Menu/Programs. <br />5. Once the copy process is over, delete the shortcut from All Users (this <br />is just a safety <span class="IL_AD" id="IL_AD3">precaution<span class="IL_AD_ICON"></span></span>, you can also right click/drag&amp;drop/move). </p>
<p>More Specific Options: </p>
<p>For Pro: Go to Start/Run/Gpedit/User Configuration/Software Settings <br />To restrict access to files and folders in XP Home, you must be running NTFS <br />as your file system. </p>
<p>To enforce file and folder security, boot the computer in Safe Mode and log <br />in to the built-in <span class="IL_AD" id="IL_AD5">Administrator account<span class="IL_AD_ICON"></span></span>. Once there, open Windows <br />Explorer and locate the file/folder you wish to restrict. Right click and <br />select Properties. Go to the Security tab. Here you can add/remove Users <br />and Groups, and either grant access to the file/folder, or deny access to <br />it. </p>
<p><span class="IL_AD" id="IL_AD4">Applications<span class="IL_AD_ICON"></span></span> - Restrict Users from Running Specific Applications </p>
<p>This setting allows you to specify applications and filenames that users are restricted from running. <br />Open your registry and find the key [HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion \Policies\Explorer] <br />Create a new DWORD value and name it "DisallowRun" set the value to "1" to enable <span class="IL_AD" id="IL_AD2">application<span class="IL_AD_ICON"></span></span> restrictions or "0" to allow all applications to run. <br />Then  create a new sub-key called  [HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion  \Policies\Explorer\DisallowRun] and define the applications the are to be restricted. Creating a new string value for each application, named as consecutive numbers, and setting the value to the filename to be restricted (e.g. "regedit.exe"). </p>
<p>Right  click in the right pane and select New, DWord value.  Name the new  value DisallowRun.  Double click the new value and set it to 1.  Then  right click on the Explorer sub branch, in the left pane and select New,  Key  Name the new key Disallow Run.  Highlight this key, then in the  right pane, right click and select New, String value.  Give it "1" for <br />the name, without the quotes.  <br />Double <span class="IL_AD" id="IL_AD1">click this<span class="IL_AD_ICON"></span></span> new value and enter the actual file name of the executable you wish to restrict this user from <br />running.   Example: calc.exe   This prevents this user from running Calculator.   They'll get a "This operation has been cancelled message" when they  try.  Note: The way around this is for <span class="IL_AD" id="IL_AD10">the user<span class="IL_AD_ICON"></span></span> to rename Calc.exe to something else.  For additional entries, just  give the "values" names in numerical order, 1, 2, 3, 4 and so on.  DisallowRunReg and DisallowRunCalc<br />Restart Windows for the changes to take effect. </p>
<p>Applications - Restrict Applications Users Can Run </p>
<p>HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Policies\Explorer. Value Name: RestrictRun<br />Open your registry and find the key [HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion \Policies\Explorer] <br />Create a new DWORD value and name it "RestrictRun" set the value to "1" to enable application restrictions or "0" to allow all applications to run. <br />Then  create a new sub-key called  [HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion  \Policies\Explorer\RestrictRun] and define the applications that are allowed. Creating a new string value for each application, named as consecutive numbers, and setting the value to the filename to be allowed (e.g. "regedit.exe" and "calc.exe"). </p>
<p>This example prevents any applications but those that you specify from being run:<br />Right click in the Right pane and select New, DWord value and name the new value RestrictRun  Double click this entry <br />and  set it to 1. Right click on the Explorer sub branch, in the left pane  and select New, Key  Name the new key RestrictRun.  Highlight this key,  then in the right pane, right click and select New, String value.  Give  it "1" for the name, without the quotes.  Double click this new value  and enter the actual file name of the executable you wish to restrict  this user from running. Example: calc.exe  Right click again, select  New, String value, name the new value "2".  Double click the new <br />value, enter REGEDIT.EXE<br />This  example would only allow Calculator and REGEDIT to be run.   Be VERY  careful with this setting.  You could wind up locking yourself out of  REGEDIT if you were to use the restrictions on your Administrator account.<br />Restart Windows for the changes to take effect. <br />Note:  If you are the person who applies Group Policy, do not apply this  policy to yourself. If applied too broadly, this policy can prevent  administrators from running Group Policy or the <span class="IL_AD" id="IL_AD6">registry editors<span class="IL_AD_ICON"></span></span>. As a result, once applied, you cannot change this policy except by reinstalling Windows XP. <br />Software  Restriction Policies may be set to determine what software may or may  not be run by users on the system. (Jim Cavalaris [MS])<br />Software Restriction Policies can be configured via the group policy editor (gpedit.msc) at:</p>
<p>Local Computer Policy --&gt;Computer Configuration --&gt;Windows Settings --&gt;<span class="IL_AD" id="IL_AD9">Security Settings<span class="IL_AD_ICON"></span></span> --&gt;Software Restriction Policies.  Policy can be set to either:  restrict users from running specified programs - OR -restrict users to  allow ONLY the specified programs to be run.<br />For a non-domain  machine, policy can be applied to all users on the system, or non-Admin  users only (Admins are not affected by the policy, and may run any/all  programs). you cannot specify this policy for only certain users, but  for a non-domain machine, the Admin/non-Admin breakdown may be  sufficient.<br />Using Software Restriction Policies in Windows XP and Windows .NET Server to Protect Against Unauthorized Software<br />Another Option - (KWE) - You can move shortcuts out of %ALLUSERSPROFILE%\StartMenu\Programs and place the shortcuts in specific <span class="IL_AD" id="IL_AD7">user account<span class="IL_AD_ICON"></span></span> profiles to keep program shortcuts from being visible to all accounts.  This does not stop the limited account from running the program using a  variety of techniques.<br />Applications - Set Priority<br />Open TaskManager (Ctrl+Alt+Del or Ctrl+Shift+Esc), Process Tab. Right click the Program in questions, Set Priority.</div>
