---
layout: post
title: Finding Stocks the Warren Buffett Way by John Bajkowski
date: 2012-06-26 13:47:00.000000000 +05:30
type: post
parent_id: '0'
published: true
password: ''
status: publish
categories: []
tags: []
meta:
  blogger_blog: ijuned.blogspot.com
  blogger_7553295648c4d8ebded8b8484926da00_permalink: '5062000407909975952'
---
<div dir="ltr" style="text-align:left;">Like most successful <span class="IL_AD" id="IL_AD1">stock pickers<span class="IL_AD_ICON"></span></span>, Warren Buffett thinks that the efficient market theory is <br />absolute rubbish. Buffett has backed up his beliefs with a successful track record through <br />Berkshire Hathaway, his publicly traded holding company.</p>
<p>Maria Crawford Scott examined Warren Buffett's <span class="IL_AD" id="IL_AD4">approach<span class="IL_AD_ICON"></span></span> in the January 1998 issue of the AAII <br />Journal. Table 1 below provides a <span class="IL_AD" id="IL_AD9">summary<span class="IL_AD_ICON"></span></span> of Buffett's investment style. In this article, we <br />develop a screen to identify promising businesses and then use valuation models to measure <br />the attractiveness of stocks passing the preliminary screen. </p>
<p>Buffett has never expounded extensively on his investment approach, although it can be <br />gleaned from his writings in the Berkshire Hathaway <span class="IL_AD" id="IL_AD2">annual reports<span class="IL_AD_ICON"></span></span>. Many books by <span class="IL_AD" id="IL_AD6">outsiders<span class="IL_AD_ICON"></span></span> <br />have attempted to explain Buffett's investment approach. One recently <span class="IL_AD" id="IL_AD3">published book<span class="IL_AD_ICON"></span></span> that <br />discusses his approach in an interesting and methodical fashion is "Buffettology: The Previously <br />Unexplained Techniques That Have Made Warren Buffett the World's Most Famous Investor," by <br />Mary Buffett, a former daughter-in-law of Buffett's, and David Clark, a family friend and <br />portfolio manager [published by Simon &amp; Schuster, 800-223-2336; $27.00]. This book was used <br />as the basis for this article.</p>
<p><b>Monopolies vs. Commodities </b><br />Warren Buffett seeks first to identify an excellent business and then to acquire the firm if the <br />price is right. Buffett is a buy-and-hold investor who prefers to hold the stock ofa good <br />company earning 15% year after year over jumping from investment to investment with the <br />hope of a quick 25% gain. Once a good company is identified and purchased at an attractive <br />price, it is held for the long-term until the business loses its attractiveness or until a more <br />attractive <span class="IL_AD" id="IL_AD12">alternative investment<span class="IL_AD_ICON"></span></span> becomes available.</p>
<p>Buffett seeks businesses whose product or service will be in constant and growing demand. In <br />his view, businesses can be divided into two basic types: </p>
<p>Commodity-based firms, selling products where price is the single most important factor <br />determining purchase. Buffett avoids commodity-based firms. They are characterized with high <br />levels of competition in which the low-cost producer wins because of the freedom to establish <br />prices. Management is key for the long-term success of these types of firms. </p>
<p>Consumer <span class="IL_AD" id="IL_AD10">monopolies<span class="IL_AD_ICON"></span></span>, selling products where there is no effective competitor, either due to a <br />patent or brand name or similar intangible that makes the product or service unique. </p>
<p>While Buffett is considered a value investor, he passes up <span class="IL_AD" id="IL_AD11">the stocks<span class="IL_AD_ICON"></span></span> of commodity-based firms <br />even if they can be purchased at a price below the intrinsic value of the firm. An enterprise <br />with poor inherent economics often remains that way. The stock of a mediocre business treads <br />water. </p>
<p>How do you spot a commodity-based company? Buffett looks for these characteristics:<br />     The firm has low profit margins (net income divided by sales); <br />     The firm has low return on equity (earnings per share divided by book value per share); <br />     Absence of any brand-name loyalty for its products; <br />     The presence of multiple producers; <br />     The existence of substantial excess capacity; <br />     Profits tend to be erratic; and <br />     The firm's profitability depends upon management's ability to optimize the use of tangible assets.</p>
<p>Buffett seeks out consumer monopolies. These are companies that have managed to create a <br />product or service that is somehow unique and difficult to reproduce by competitors, either <br />due to brand-name loyalty, a particular niche that only a limited number companies can enter, <br />or an unregulated but legal monopoly such as a patent.</p>
<p>Consumer monopolies can be businesses that <span class="IL_AD" id="IL_AD8">sell products<span class="IL_AD_ICON"></span></span> or services. Buffett reveals three <br />types of monopolies: </p>
<p>Businesses that make products that wear out fast or are used up quickly and have brand-name <br />appeal that merchants must carry to attract customers. Nike is a good example of a firm with a <br />strong brand name demanded by customers. Any store selling athletic shoes must carry Nike <br />products to remain competitive. Other examples include leading newspapers, drug companies <br />with patents, and popular brand-name restaurants such as McDonald's. </p>
<p>Communications firms that provide a repetitive service that manufacturers must use to <br />persuade the public to buy the manufacturer's products. All businesses must advertise their <br />items, and many of the available media face little competition. These include worldwide <br />advertising agencies, magazine publishers, newspapers, and telecommunications networks. </p>
<p>Businesses that provide repetitive consumer services that people and businesses are in constant <br />need of. Examples include tax preparers, insurance companies, and <span class="IL_AD" id="IL_AD7">investment firms<span class="IL_AD_ICON"></span></span>. </p>
<p>Mary Buffett suggests going to your local 7-Eleven or White Hen Pantry to identify many of <br />these "must-have" products. These stores typically carry a very limited line of must-have <br />products such as <span class="IL_AD" id="IL_AD5">Marlboro<span class="IL_AD_ICON"></span></span> cigarettes and Wrigley's gum. However, with the guidance of the <br />factors used to identify attractive companies, we can establish a basic screen to identify <br />potential investments worthy of further analysis. </p>
<p>The rules used for our Buffett screen are identified and discussed in Table 2. AAII's Stock <br />Investor Professional was used to perform the screen. Consumer monopolies typically have high <br />profit margins because of their unique niche; however, a simple screen for high margins may <br />highlight weak firms in industries with traditionally high margins, but low turnover levels.</p>
<p>Our first screening filters looked for firms with both gross operating and net profit margins <br />above the median for their industry. The operating margin concerns itself with the costs <br />directly associated with production of the goods and services, while the net margin takes all of <br />the company activities and actions into account. <br /><b><br />Understand How It Works </b><br />As is common with successful investors, Buffett only invests in companies he can understand. <br />Individuals should try to invest in areas where they possess some specialized knowledge and <br />can more effectively judge a company, its industry, and its competitive environment. While it <br />is difficult to construct a quantitative filter, an investor should be able to identify areas of <br />interest. An investor should only consider analyzing those firms operating in areas that they can <br />clearly grasp. </p>
<p><b>Conservative Financing</b><br />Consumer monopolies tend to have strong cash flows, with little need for long-term debt. <br />Buffett does not object to the use of debt for a good purpose--for example, if a company uses <br />debt to finance the purchase of another consumer monopoly. However, he does object if the <br />added debt is used in a way that will produce mediocre results--such as expanding into a <br />commodity line of business. </p>
<p>Appropriate levels of debt vary from industry to industry, so it is best to construct a relative <br />filter against industry norms. We screened out firms that had higher levels of total liabilities to <br />total assets than their industry median. The ratio of total liabilities to total assets is more <br />encompassing than just looking at ratios based upon long-term debt such as the debt-equity <br />ratio. </p>
<p><b>Strong &amp; Improving Earnings</b><br />Buffett invests only in a business whose future earnings are predictable to a high degree of <br />certainty. Companies with predictable earnings have good business economics and produce <br />cash that can be reinvested or paid out to shareholders. Earnings levels are critical in <br />valuation. As earnings increase, the stock price will eventually reflect this growth. </p>
<p>Buffett looks for strong long-term growth as well as an indication of an upward trend. In the <br />book, Mary Buffett looks at both the 10- and five-year growth rates. Stock Investor Professional <br />contains only seven years of data, so we examined the seven-year growth rate as the long-term <br />growth rate and the three-year growth rate for the intermediate-term growth rate. </p>
<p>For our screen, we first required that a company's seven-year earnings growth rate be higher <br />than that of 75% of the stocks in the overall database. Stock Investor Professional includes <br />percentile ranks for growth rates, so we specified a percentile rank greater than 75. </p>
<p>It is best if the earnings also show an upward trend. Buffett compares the intermediate-term <br />growth rate to the long-term growth rate and looks for an expanding level. For our next filter, <br />we required that the three-year growth rate in earnings be greater than the seven-year growth <br />rate. This further reduced the number of passing companies to 213. Not surprisingly, the <br />companies passing the Buffett screen have very high growth rates--as a group, nearly three <br />times the median for the whole database. </p>
<p>Consumer monopolies should show both strong and consistent earnings. Wild swings in earnings <br />are characteristic of commodity businesses. A examination of year-by-year earnings should be <br />performed as part of the valuation. The earnings per share for Nike are displayed in the Buffett <br />valuation spreadsheet. Note that earnings per share growth has been strong and consistent with <br />only one year in which earnings did not increase from the previous period. </p>
<p>A screen requiring an increase in earnings for each of the last seven years would be too <br />stringent and not be in keeping with the Buffett philosophy. However, a filter requiring positive <br />earnings for each of the last seven years should help to eliminate some of the commodity-<br />based businesses with wild earnings swings.</p>
<p>A Consistent Focus<br />Companies that stray too far from their base of operation often end up in trouble. Peter Lynch <br />also avoided profitable companies diversifying into other areas. Lynch termed these <br />diworseifications. Quaker Oats' purchase and subsequent sale of Snapple is a good example of <br />this common mistake. </p>
<p>Companies should expand into related areas that offer high return potential. Nike's past <br />development of a line of athletic clothing to complement its athletic shoe business is an <br />example of a extension that makes sense. This factor is clearly a qualitative screen that cannot <br />be done with the computer. </p>
<p>Buyback of Shares <br />Buffett views share repurchases favorably since they cause per share earnings increases for <br />those who don't sell, resulting in an increase in the stock's market price. This is a difficult <br />variable to screen as most data services do not indicate this variable. You can screen for a <br />decreasing number of outstanding shares, but this factor is best analyzed during the valuation <br />process. </p>
<p>Investing Retained Earnings <br />A company should retain its earnings if its rate of return on its investment is higher than the <br />investor could earn on his own. Dividends should only be paid if they would be better employed <br />in other companies. If the earnings are properly reinvested in the company, earnings should <br />rise over time and stock price valuation will also rise to reflect the increasing value of the <br />business. </p>
<p>An important factor in the desire to reinvest earnings is that the earnings are not subject to <br />personal income taxes unless they are paid out in the form of dividends. The use of retained <br />earnings delays personal income taxes until the stock is sold. </p>
<p>Buffett examines management's use of retained earnings, looking for management that have <br />proven it is able to employ retained earnings in the new moneymaking ventures, or for stock <br />buybacks when they offer a greater return. </p>
<p>Good Return on Equity <br />Buffett seeks companies with above average return on equity. Mary Buffett indicates that the <br />average return on equity over the last 30 years has been around 12%. </p>
<p>We created a custom field that averaged the return on equity for the last seven years to <br />provide a better indication of the normal profitability for the company. During the valuation <br />process, this average should be checked against more current figures to assure that the past is <br />still indicative of the future direction of the company. Our screen looks for average return on <br />equity of 12% or greater. </p>
<p>Inflation Adjustments <br />Consumer monopolies can typically adjust their prices quickly to inflation without significant <br />reductions in unit sales since there is little price competition to keep prices in check. This <br />factor is best applied through a qualitative examination of a company during the valuation <br />stage.</p>
<p>Reinvesting Capital <br />In Buffett's view, the real value of consumer monopolies is in their intangibles--for instance, <br />brand-name loyalty, regulatory licenses, and patents. They do not have to rely heavily on <br />investments in land, plant, and equipment, and often produce products that are low tech. <br />Therefore they tend to have large free cash flows (operating cash flow less dividends and <br />capital expenditures) and low debt. Retained earnings must first go toward maintaining current <br />operations at competitive levels. This is a factor that is also best examined at the time of the <br />company valuation although a screen for relative levels of free cash flow might help to confirm <br />a company's status. </p>
<p>The above basic questions help to indicate whether the company is potentially a consumer <br />monopoly and worthy of further analysis. However, stocks passing the screens<br />are not automatic buys. The next test revolves around the issue of value. </p>
<p>The Price is Right<br />(Using the Spreadsheet)<br />The price that you pay for a stock determines the rate of return--the higher the initial price, <br />the lower the overall return. The lower the initial price paid, the higher the return. Buffett <br />first picks the business, and then lets the price of the company determine when to purchase <br />the firm. The goal is to buy an excellent business at a price that makes business sense. <br />Valuation equates a company's stock price to a relative benchmark. A $500 dollar per share <br />stock may be cheap, while a $2 per share stock may be expensive.</p>
<p>Buffett uses a number of different methods to evaluate share price. Three techniques are <br />highlighted in the book with specific examples and are used in the buffet spreadsheet <br />template.</p>
<p>Buffett prefers to concentrate his investments in a few strong companies that are priced well. <br />He feels that diversification is performed by investors to protect themselves from their <br />stupidity. </p>
<p>Earnings Yield<br />Buffett treats earnings per share as the return on his investment, much like how a business <br />owner views these types of profits. Buffett likes to compute the earnings yield (earnings per <br />share divided by share price) because it presents a rate of return that can be compared quickly <br />to other investments. </p>
<p>Buffett goes as far as to view stocks as bonds with variable yields, and their yields equate to <br />the firm's underlying earnings. The analysis is completely dependent upon the predictability <br />and stability of the earnings, which explains the emphasis on earnings strength within the <br />preliminary screens. </p>
<p>Nike has an earnings yield of 5.7% (cell C13, computed by dividing earnings per share of $2.77 <br />(cell C9) by the price $48.25 (cell C8)). Buffett likes to compare the company earnings yield to <br />the long-term government bond yield. An earnings yield near the government bond yield is <br />considered attractive. With government bonds yielding around 6% currently (cell C17), Nike <br />compares very favorably. By paying $48 dollars per share for Nike, an investor gets an earnings <br />yield return equal to the interest yield on bonds. The bond interest is cash in hand but it is <br />static, while the earnings of Nike should grow over time and push the stock price up.</p>
<p>Historical Earnings Growth <br />Another approach Buffett uses is to project the annual compound rate of return based on <br />historical earnings per share increases. For example, earnings per share at Nike have increased <br />at a compound annual growth rate of 18.9% over the last seven years (cell B32). If earnings per <br />share increase for the next 10 years at this same growth rate of 18.9%, earnings per share in <br />year 10 will be $15.58. [$2.77 x ((1 + 0.189)^10)]. (Note this value is found in cells B49 and <br />E39) This estimated earnings per share figure can then be multiplied by the average price-<br />earnings ratio of 14.0 (cell H10) to provide an estimate of price [$15.58 x 14.0=$217.43]. (Note <br />this value is found in cell E42) If dividends are paid, an estimate of the amount of dividends <br />paid over the 10-year period should also be added to the year 10 price [$217.43 + $13.29 = <br />$230.72]. (Note this value is found in cell E43) </p>
<p>Once this future price is estimated, projected rates of return can be determined over the 10-<br />year period based on the current selling price of the stock. Buffett requires a<br />return of at least 15%. For Nike, comparing the projected total gain of $230.72 to the current <br />price of $48.25 leads projected rate of return of 16.9% [($230.72/$48.25) ^<br />(1/10) - 1]. (Note this value is found in cell E45)</p>
<p>Sustainable Growth<br />The third approach detailed in "Buffettology" is based upon the sustainable growth rate model. <br />Buffett uses the average rate of return on equity and average retention ratio (1 average payout <br />ratio) to calculate the sustainable growth rate [ ROE x ( 1 - payout ratio)]. The sustainable <br />growth rate is used to calculate the book value per share in year 10 [BVPS ((1 + sustainable <br />growth rate )^10)]. Earnings per share can be estimated in year 10 by multiplying the average <br />return on equity by the projected book value per share [ROE x BVPS]. To estimate the future <br />price, you multiply the earnings by the average price-earnings ratio [EPS x P/E]. If dividends <br />are paid, they can be added to the projected price to compute the total gain.</p>
<p>For example, Nike's sustainable growth rate is 19.2% [22.8% x (1 - 0.159)].(Sustainable growth <br />rate is found in cell H11) Thus, book value per share should grow at this rate to roughly $65.94 <br />in 10 years [$11.38 x ((1 + 0.192)^10)]. (Note this value is found in cell B64) If return on equity <br />remains 22.8% (cell H6) in the tenth year, earnings per share that year would be $15.06 [ 0.228 <br />x $65.94]. (Note this value is found in cell E54) The estimated earnings per share can then be <br />multiplied by the average price-earnings ratio to project the price of $210.23 [$15.06 x 14.0]. <br />(Note this value is located in cell E56) Since dividends are paid, use an estimate of the amount <br />of dividends paid over the 10-year period to project the rate of return of 16.5% [(($210.23 + <br />$12.72)/ $48.25) ^ (1/10) - 1]. (Note this return estimate is found in cell E60)</p>
<p>Conclusion<br />The Warren Buffett approach to investing makes use of "folly and discipline": the discipline of <br />the investor to identify excellent businesses and wait for the folly of the market to buy these <br />businesses at attractive prices. Most investors have little trouble understanding Buffett's <br />philosophy. The approach encompasses many widely held investment principles. Its successful <br />implementation is dependent upon the dedication of the investor to learn and follow the <br />principles. </p>
<p>John Bajkowski is editor of Computerized Investing and senior financial analyst of AAII.<br />(c) Computerized Investing - January/February 1998, Volume XVII, No.1</div>
